so let us start with the yoga will do
yoga today we'll do it X n xn yoga you
have heard of it
you start by Indians that is how you
know that Yoga is real that is being
taught it is done with the accent I
understand you get it ok so today you
can start at suya Namaskar
[Music]
there we go
not to my step you guys me all right so
we're gonna be back at the old set up
yesterday which is gonna have faster
internet and more space so the cameras
and stuff will be a little bit better so
let's start with Surya Namaskar so take
a moment so stand up straight I'll be
ruling in the ass okay okay
just started with the head ballin the
handball bun can be used to say yes or
no be yourself mobile bubble bubble
bubble babe ready
Mosley's okay so start by standing feet
shoulder length apart let your arms hang
down
you can now put your arms together from
even feet together start by entering
your domestic position so this is our
anchoring and if you guys feel
comfortable we're gonna start all
together if you're new to the practice
and don't feel comfortable you can
observe one round we're gonna do three
rounds of Surya Namaskar okay so begin
burns up biceps to your ears and then
down protect your toes keep your legs
straight don't bend your knees it's okay
to not bend very much let gravity do the
work for you
you don't strain go down as far as you
can naturally go and let your head knee
and now right leg forward palms face
down by your side
look up one foot back knee into your
shoulder just look up a little bit
notice that when you look down you can
relax when you look up the strain
increases which is perfectly on right
leg back push-up position
and then toes touching the ground knees
touching the ground just before then but
when you turn off the ground
let's roll on it and then feet flattened
the props are here each should be
touching the ground push up hips into
the ground shoulders out elbows bent and
look
and now it's hose back down touching the
ground and then push up rock in the air
heels into the ground
here's by your biceps again
let your head hang a little bit and
relax into the posture and our left leg
forward and look up feel that stretch in
your hips your calves feel it kind of
through here on this side and then be
touching breath and hanging tip your
toes and notice already but before
between earlier and now how much you can
bend because your body wakes up and now
palms together look
stretching so high you'll have expansion
in your back feel how open your chest
feels your back feels and then come back
okay we're going to go again we're going
to go a little bit faster this time
okay so arms up
hands down dip your toes left leg
forward arms by your feet or your foot
on the leg back look up
and then left leg back push-up position
and these to the ground hitting around
400 round button where
well your feet you've sent the ground
and push up keep your shoulders out look
up feel that beautiful stretch good job
and toes into the ground and then shop
again button to the air heels down
now right leg forward look up excellent
you're doing great
I don't like forward
arms up back to centre good taking one
with just relax a little bit so notice
what your body is telling you it's like
hey man we're here so notice that you're
starting to feel loose you can still see
it feels into stiffness maybe you feel a
little bit energized hopefully for the
EU being maybe this is a little
mid-afternoon pick me up let's do our
last round so before we do our last
round I'm going to tell you guys now why
we do yoga okay
the purpose of yoga is to bring your
attention to the present so that you
can't think about anything else
it is the preparatory step for
meditation right so what we do is we use
our body is an anchor to keep us from
thinking distracting thoughts and our
body is a really powerful anchor
especially when you do all these poses
and so now for this next round what I
really want you guys to focus on is
adopt as much or as little of the
posture as you can with the goal not
being how far do you stretch or how far
you reach or how straight your back is
the goal should be to adopt a particular
physical posture your judge of whether
you're doing yoga correctly should not
come from anything that anyone can see
whether you're doing go over correctly
comes entirely from here what is your
mind doing can you keep the posture
stable but with attention in the present
or not so you want it to be stable but
we want it to be demanding enough to
where your mind is focusing on keeping
that posture how it is if you become too
comfortable than the mind begins to
wander if it becomes too difficult then
you cannot maintain it for a long time
you guys see that the goal is to
maintain your mind in the present
for as long as possible that's why we do
yoga okay so now put your feet together
and we're going to begin again so eyes
closed or open if you need stability and
just feel your body feel it in this
present moment feel your palms feel your
elbows feel your chest your shoulders
your knees you can anchor in on the the
instability if you want to and now arms
up now feel how your back is different
in this position feel the stretch in the
pole kind of beneath your shoulder
blades in between your shoulder blades
in your spine and reach up even further
see what it does to your body is used is
you become ramrod straight see how your
breath is constructed and now down now
once again feel what your body's tells
you tightness in the neck take this in
the back with each breath sink deeper
look
now we're going to go forward right leg
forward left leg back arms by your sides
look up and feel feel your hips feel the
relaxation in your back as you slightly
curved feel the difference between your
right palm and your left palm your right
arm and your left arm is one of them is
being pushed up a little bit feel the
stretch and your right arm is you strain
to put it into the ground and now right
leg back push-up position feel the
instability begin to come on try to keep
your back but then feet straight note
what's in the air you want to be
straight and then relax number
and notice that even though one relaxed
now there may not be a whole lot of
physical strain your body is still
sending you signals in the present
relaxation can be a signal as well
my feet flat on the ground
so this pointed behind you push up hips
on the ground shoulders rolled out look
up feel that stretch in your back feel
the tightness as we hold a position
notice the burning is it begins in your
arms so your body is sending you signals
now and then downward-facing dog with
awesome feet flat on the ground now
he'll let your head hang and see how
that feels
and now left leg forward look up
you know on the way up then scoot back a
little bit you see in it getting it down
then up bombs together ends all the way
up now relax in this position to then
come back now we're going to go into
shove awesome so go ahead in lay down on
your back palms by your sides feet out
to each side
notice your breathing
slow and deep of its encore
now let yourself come back
you're I suppose go ahead and set out
just take a moment
see the black space in front of your
eyes as your eyes are closed we're going
to go ahead and just roll straight into
meditation so today we'll be doing a
third eye meditation
you want to grab a Christian or to try
to sit in a way that's comfortable
remember that if you elevate your butt
that it'll be easier to sit up straight
so keep your back straight we're going
to do charging the laser beam so take
your middle finger you place it about
half maybe about a half an inch or a
quarter inch away from the center of
your forehead between your eyebrows
don't touch keep your eyes closed
move it as close as you can without
touching even though you aren't touching
you should be able to feel the fingers
just concentrate on the sensation that's
created in your forehead or possibly
between your forehead and your finger
go ahead and relax and continue to focus
on that point of your forehead
not begin again put the finger back
no wax
focus on that point in your forehead put
all of your energy all of your intention
and all of your attention into that
point and push into it with your
concentration
now third time bring the middle finger
back the point between your eyebrows
don't touch
bringing down
so concentrate now relax take a deep
breath in and out in and out last one
very slow in doubt
let's put your palms together in front
of you and express gratitude towards
yourself towards the universe that you
are alive you are here you may be facing
struggles the world may be falling apart
but that you exist and you are capable
you can't move mountains can't even move
yourself you can be this person then you
will do what needs to be done rub your
palms together in front of you feel the
heat in the friction drop them over your
eyes with one last inflation and
exhalation open your eyes and letting
the palms come down alright okay alright
what do you guys okay let's take a quick
poll there's my take a three minute
break
what do y'all think
okay looks like most people don't want
to take a break but there are enough
people that do so why don't we take a
three-minute plate break because there
are not people like people may need to
use the bathroom I think it's perfectly
fine guys so let's not be impatient
let's take a quick break I'm gonna need
a minute to set up reflector and get
some water and stuff like that anyway so
why don't we take a break let's be
patient let's take a moment for a mind
to go ahead and recalibrate will start
at in about three minutes okay and then
we'll be prepared notice how you feel
now and you'll be properly prepared to
learn when we get back okay
you gotta be carrying
there we go
said the fact
this is black you gotta be kidding me
what is wrong with this thing this is
what I get from trying to you know make
sure everything works ahead of time
okay saved okay I swear guys it's like
look I do the same damn thing every
single time and it's just it's finicky
I'm telling you guys it's not it's not
my fault okay let's see if we can um so
let's get started okay so today
hopefully everyone's back we're gonna
talk about meditation okay so let's
start by talking about meditation it's
working box so this is going to be a
little bit of a more slightly more
academic lecture okay so a lot of people
wonder like what kind of meditation
actually let me go shut the door
okay I'm pretty sure that their pancakes
being made downstairs and they smell
delicious okay
so a lot of people are wondering what
kind of meditation should they do and
like even what is meditation because
people don't really know so we're going
to start with a little bit of history of
meditation so the first kind of
meditation was actually developed by
convicts
okay so thumper is a discipline it's
probably 5,000 years old but there is a
form of mysticism and tends to have
three parts
Jahna mantra and young fit-up okay
and so yagna is like a ritual so this is
like casting Emma
ritual mantra is like a phrase that
accumulates energy and this is like a
geometric energy accumulator
so the first thing to understand about
Panthro
is that thun thourough is is about the
accumulation of energy so in a sense the
focus is on sort of the interaction
between south and the outside so it's
like self outside and contradicts
believe that basically you can do these
three things to accumulate particular
kinds of energy to exert an influence on
the outside world so goal of eases
influence the outside world actually not
necessarily the outside world but to get
a sort of a tangible benefit so there
are mantras for example that you know
like there are certain kinds of like
month rows and fasts that Hindus do to
like get good husbands for example or
their mantras to gain health or mantras
for prosperity or things like that so
like bunker is like basically it's like
it's almost like a system of magic okay
and there are fine thick meditations and
the founder of meditations are sort of
geared towards
okay they're geared towards some sort of
accumulating particular energies to get
particular ends and so over here we're
going to have Kundalini Yoga so we'll
talk about when doing is in a second and
so over time the tantrics actually
developed yoga and yoga is sort of a
system to reach enlightenment okay and
and so let's just think about this for a
second so yoga the the root word of yoga
is huge and huge means union or yoke and
what that means is that like yoga is
essentially like there's this concept in
Eastern religions that our consciousness
is part of a bigger consciousness called
brahman and so then basically the unit
of existence is consciousness there's
this whole sea of consciousness and we
become a drop out of that like we take a
drop out of that ocean and we embody it
within a physical form and that's you so
there's a part of you that's the
physical form but your true essence is
this like like tiny bit of consciousness
so this is the idea that you know
enlightenment it people call it
realization or enlightenment it's not
learning it's not discovering something
new it's actually remembering something
old right realization is a new
perspective on something that you
already know it's not gaining new
knowledge so the process of
enlightenment is this stepwise process
to become aware that you are actually
divine and eternal and all this other
like wonderful beautiful stuff okay but
the main thing here is that what yoga is
really for is is it's to help us become
one with this thing called the infinite
or brahmand it's kind of hard to
describe because you have to experience
for a month to really understand what it
is it's kind of like I want you guys to
imagine this for a second so imagine
that you've never been in a body of
water
so you've seen water you've drank water
but you've never like been under water
it's very very difficult to describe to
someone what the experience of moving in
water or being underwater is like it's
like you can say like yeah you can
you're moving but it's like you're
moving slowly right like how would you
how would someone who has never been
underwater like know what slow movement
feels like you know you could use a word
sluggish but like sluggish is not you
know doesn't accurate descriptor stand
Brahman and what that means you really
have to experience it so yoga is the
process so the fabrics basically were
like okay like there's this they develop
this process of yoga and yoga is the
process of becoming one with the divine
or whatever realization enlightenment
all all the same thing the other
interesting thing about yoga is that it
involves the word yoke so that's kind of
like Sanskrit has these dual meanings so
the other thing about yoga is that yoga
also means freedom so yoga is that which
frees you from the thing that binds you
to life and also that which joins you to
the infinite okay so it's kind of weird
so it's like sort of freedom and
liberation and like that which is bound
through the process of becoming unbound
and then in yoga
there are we'll get to Kundalini in a
second so in yoga there are four kinds
of yoga
so there's karma yoga bhakti yoga
jnana-yoga and Garagiola okay and these
are paths to enlightenment so what does
this mean this means that this process
of liberation can be attained through
basically four four ways so this is the
path of action so this is the idea that
if you want to like get to God or become
enlightened you can just do it through
actions you can just a queue you can
just be a good person and do good things
you don't have to do yoga you don't have
to meditate you don't have to worship
someone you can just basically be like a
secular atheistic good person and if you
devote yourself to actions and kind of
like doing a good job you can become
enlightened
okay so gotta my Yogi's tend to be like
activists like a lot of them are sort of
cuddler Yogi's so like MLK or Mahatma
Gandhi Gandhi or like good examples of
karma Yogi's party Yoga is the path of
devotion so the best way to understand
this is essentially like religion but
not necessarily okay it includes
religion but isn't necessary exclusive
religion so any religion that we think
of where we sort of a religion as a set
of beliefs that if you follow it you'll
kind of be you know you'll go to heaven
or whatever like that stuff is
essentially devotion right so if you're
if you look at the judeo-christian
religion like you devote yourself to the
ideals and teachings of a particular God
so it can be like Jesus or the Father or
Yahweh or a lot like it can in the
Eastern religions it's like Krishna or
ROM or whoever or Shiva or whatever that
essentially like devoting yourself to a
particular God or ideal is like a way to
become divine the the other interesting
thing that the Yogi's actually say is
that it is not the object of devotion
that matters right so like they actually
say so there's like person there's
devotion
and then there's object so a lot of
times like religious conflict is kind of
centered on the idea that like my god is
better than your God right they say that
like okay so like when Hindus and
Muslims fight like a lot of it has to do
with like there's like religious
conflict going Jews and Muslims fight
there's like villages conflict there's
this idea of conversion or like my God
is better than your God but like what
the Yogi's actually noticed is that like
gods change over time they're like all
these tons of gods tons of religion it
actually doesn't make sense that any
particular God is like better than any
other God so there's like Zeus and then
there's also like Hades and then there's
Jesus and there's I'm sure a lot of
people will find this offensive I'm just
making statements and there's Krishna
there are all kinds of gods that have
existed in the history of humanity and
what the Yogi's observed and you guys
are completely inclined to agree or
disagree right so remember that the
purpose of me teaching is to give you
guys testable hypotheses not knowledge
what the Yogi's observed is that it's at
the act of devotion to your particular
God that is the important thing and what
I mean by that is that like they
basically looked at religious people or
they looked at religions and they said
some people who practice religion are
and some people who practice
our religion are good therefore it is
not the religion itself that makes
someone good or bad it is like the
degree to which you devote yourself to
the ideal right so they kind of said
like it doesn't matter whether you
worship Zeus or Kali or Jesus or
whatever the act of devotion is the
important thing the other interesting
thing about huffy yoga is it doesn't
necessarily include religion it doesn't
include only religion so you can devote
yourself to a particular idea like
climate change right so you can say that
I'm gonna like if you put your heart and
soul and effort in mind behind like a
particular ideal and you devote yourself
to that you will become spiritually
purified in that process so that's where
like karma yoga and puck do kind of
overlap some but ultimately it's the
idea that you kind of set a target that
you say this thing is more important
than I am and that I'm going to become
an instrument
of like achieving this thing and that
instrument can be God if you're like
let's say you're a priest right so
you're like okay I'm going to become
like an instrument to be like God's will
or you can be an instrument of climate
change or you can be an instrument of
like whatever it doesn't matter the I
the main ideas that you devote yourself
to something and in that process so then
people may ask like okay can you devote
yourself to killing other people or
things like that the interesting thing
is that you know there are good things
that you can devote yourself to or bad
things that you can devote yourself to
in a sense yes like you can it the
object of your devotion doesn't matter
the manner of your devotion matters so
how you become devoted is very important
so I know that there are a lot of people
out there who seem to be for a cause but
they're like spiritually bereft right
they're like they're not they don't
actually whatever they devote themselves
to does not result in then then becoming
like humble or knowledgeable or like
spiritually like grown like less ego
like those kinds of things don't work so
I don't think that that's appropriate
devotion is the way in which you devote
yourself that's actually important not
what you devote yourself to okay so
that's devotion okay
Jonnie yoga's the path of knowledge or
contemplation and I used to think that I
was in jnana yogi but it turns out that
I'm not or I'm on the path of jnana yoga
so the path of knowledge apparently is
very very hard and very few people do it
and it's hard to learn it's essentially
contemplation so it's like kind of like
thinking your way to enlightenment so
it's not quite not logic but it's really
contemplation and like logic can come
out of contemplation but like logic
cannot make you reflective right so you
can like just because you learn
something logically doesn't mean that
you change but there's there's a
different process between reflecting and
logic the two may seem related but this
doesn't lead to change
this does so all I mean by this is that
if you look at your thought process
you'll notice that thinking about
something there like different ways in
which you can think about something and
some of the ways in which you think
about stuff will like cause you to
change and learn something and other
ways like don't cause you to learn and
change something and and so Jana yoga's
sort of the process of like figuring
teasing that apart and essentially doing
a lot in a lot of reflection about the
nature of the universe the nature of
yourself the nature of God and then you
can kind of become enlightened
so the path that I follow is around you
you're okay
in Rajee oh it has eight steps okay so
step number one is young on step number
two is neat on them okay so these are
observances personal society
so Yama and niyama or like codes of
conduct so this is like the closest
thing to like the ten commandments
although you don't have to follow them
because you're going to go to hell it's
just these are processes of spiritual
growth and as you move along this axis
this is just part of reason my
handwriting is bad is because half the
iPad is sitting off of the desk
he's gonna be a lot better when I'm back
at my other set okay so you spiritually
grow like through these processes so
yamas and niyamas soar things like
ahimsa or Bromage arya so himsa means
non-violence satya is truth so examples
are sathya truthfulness himsa
non-violence like other things include
cleanliness so these are observances
that you do for yourself and observances
that you do towards other people and as
you start to become a truthful person so
if you stop lying
but Roger Yogi's are the Yogi's claim or
believe or tell you that they give you a
hypothesis that as you lie less as you
become less violent you become more of a
spiritual person I mean what a spiritual
mean it means moving a step closer to
enlightenment we'll talk about that in a
second okay you guys are probably like
what is this after you've meditation
we'll get there so next thing is awesome
these are yoga postures okay so why do
we do this because like so remember that
the goal here so we're going to end up
down here with Samadhi which is
temporary enlightenment so the goal of
Raja Yoga is to level up slowly to where
you get to like your last sage which is
somebody which is to enter into a state
of temporary enlightenment and in the
process of that leveling up like it's
hard like you can't just go you know
straight to endgame content some ideas
like endgame content and so in order to
get to Samadhi you have to like level up
with yama and the yama and the first
real meditative practice that you do
yes sorry the first meditative practice
that you do is actually awesome which is
physical postures so today when we were
doing yoga I was encouraging you guys to
notice that your mind is in the present
so your mind literally becomes trained
to like understand what being in the
dislike and the more time that you spend
being in the present and focused in
awesome the easier it is to meditate
afterward because your mind is already
like knows how to adopt that stance of
focus and in meditation so after that is
brown a.m. so these are breathing
techniques so a lot of the techniques
that I teach on stream or to you guys
are not actually meditation techniques
they're prime so pranayama is a set of
breathing techniques that's aimed to
stabilize your life force or Qi to make
your like body and mind conducive to
meditation so there used to like kind of
calm the mind but they're not actually
true meditation so next is breath the
hata
so these techniques are sensory
withdrawal techniques okay and so what
this means is these are these are
techniques that are designed to
essentially bring your senses into
yourself so if we think about so we're
going to talk about breathy haaaa
okay so I think this is an important
thing to understand sensory
with soul okay I'll work on my
handwriting as I promised so let's think
about this for a second normally our
attention goes how does our attention
like where's our attention so we have
sight sound smell touch in aesthetics so
if you think about it like our attention
normally like goes into these things
right so I'm walking down the street and
I smell something cooking and then like
my attention like follows that scent and
then my mind starts to think about food
and or I see something like I'm like oh
look there's an advertisement for a
video let's say I'm like on my computer
and then I'm scrolling through Reddit
and then I see like oh like on our
gaming like there's a game that's coming
out today like Mountain Blade 2 is
coming out today Oh interesting it's
early access something like my site then
triggers my mind and my attention kind
of like leaves my body like leaves my
mind and goes into whatever I'm looking
at so in my mind is occupied externally
so now my question pancakes exactly
right so now my question is what happens
when you're it so what happens to your
capacity to listen to music when you
close your eyes
what do you guys think
right so now my question okay so let's
assume this for a second so let's say
that I knock out site and then sound
gets enhanced smell gets enhanced but
let's do this try to get some hands
taste gets enhanced
and your kinesthetic sense gets in this
okay so now my question is like what
happens so when we're doing yoga and our
eyes are closed it's easier to feel our
our body right like it's easier to feel
the vibrations so let's say that we
knock this out what happens to the other
senses
what do you guys think
plus plus very good right so I want you
guys to think about this for a second so
first of all we're gonna notice what
this means what this means so when I'm
when I'm doing yoga and I close my eyes
and I focus on my body do you guys
understand that that doesn't mean
thoughts happen right so mine does not
anywhere in here mind is separate from
all of this because mind is thoughts and
I would argue that when you get lost in
your mind all of the ease actually
decrease does that make sense
like when I'm daydreaming or I'm
occupied in my thoughts my attention is
actually in the mind it's not in any of
my senses and if we think about a lot of
meditation techniques they involve using
the senses to pull you out of mind right
so like I almost want you guys to
envision it this way that it's mind
versus senses you guys see that
so like this this has an antagonistic
relationship to the sentences so so
let's just think about this for a second
so if I you know when I'm doing yoga and
I close my eyes and my kinesthetic sense
increases I'm focused in the present I
can feel my body in a new way if i close
my eyes and really smell food and taste
food and i'm not distracted by like
watching TV then the experience of food
enhances so there's an antagonistic
relationship between thoughts and senses
or thoughts and attention so the
attention can either go here towards the
mind or it can go to the others in in a
sense that's true of all the other
senses as well like if I'm you know
because we kind of said that if I close
my eyes my sound enhances so you could
argue that if I'm if I'm seeing and
hearing at the same time and that each
of those is reduced so there are
antagonistic relationships between all
of these so now my question to you guys
is if I if my attention if my mind is
empty so through yoga I've managed
in my mind because I'm not thinking
about anything and then I cut out each
sense where does my attention go what
does it focus on where does it go what's
here nope incorrect not thoughts what
does that mean to yourself what is
yourself what is that to the body no the
kinesthetic senses the body this is the
body enlightenment in the present
BIGBANG mind reflection cell what a self
what does you say self what is that
freedom nothing present what does that
mean empty just mean what present moment
what where's time in all this what does
time have to do or when I when I am
sensing my body and with my eyes closed
with full attention am I not in the
present moment so this is meditation
now you guys understand what meditation
is this is true meditation so you guys
are using all these words and you're
describing to me what it's like to swim
to someone who's never been in water so
this is meditation this is the goal of
meditation it's not to be in any of
these things
it's the systematic process of let me
put it this way this is actually a
better answer this is where your mind
goes this is what what it is okay so
what are the words that Yogi's used to
describe this Advait near gyoon Advait
means non-dual
what does that mean we ten
to think about things that are good or
bad light or dark positive or negative
hot or cold and this state is neither it
is non dual it is just one thing it is
what it is what my first description I
still have this description so I wrote
like a journal entry about my first real
experience of meditation and the title
of the journal entry was business and I
was really really excited because I felt
like I had discovered something and I
sent it to like half a dozen people who
I knew and I was like read this and like
tell me if you get it and everyone was
like I don't understand what the
you're talking about they didn't
understand like what I was saying and I
was just talking about like business
business is what this state is so in its
on script they call it non dual or
without quality so objects or things in
the world have qualities right this
shirt is blue this microphone is up the
microphone is on my head we can describe
qualities to all kinds of things their
location in space their color their
tastes their weight there are all kinds
of qualities that we give to all kinds
of stuff in the world we can say things
are good things are bad things are
pleasurable things are painful things
are present things are past things are
future there are all kinds of qualities
that we can ascribe but that this state
is actually without any quality it is
that which is with no quality and that
is what meditation is okay now let's go
back so now you guys see how like if you
want to get to the state so these last
two are gonna be about this state but if
you guys want to get there do you guys
see how like you have to train yourself
to do this process like Xing this out
and then Xing this out and then Xing
this out like this is something that you
can train yourself to do so this is what
practice is okay next is hot enough
which is focus so this is actually
taking the mind in
get on one thing so one pointedness of
the mind okay so now let's talk about
pattern number one pointed mind so let
me ask you guys something
what happens when I when something
becomes constant for me what happens to
my awareness of it you guys know it's
actually an AR so sorry it goes away
perfect right so if I put this shirt on
first thing in the morning I noticed the
shirt like when I put my deodorant on
this morning I noticed the smell and as
the smell becomes constant
I lose it right if you like if there's a
background hum of like construction
after a while you like get acclimatized
to it and it falls away so the goal of
tottentot is to use one object to push
all others away so you can't turn off
your mind you can't it's very hard to
push something out of your mind like if
you have anxiety and I tell you to stop
thinking about anxiety that does not
work right you can the mind you cannot
stop the mind all you can do is direct
the mind so when someone is having a
panic attack we don't tell you hey stop
thinking about the panic just stop
thinking those thoughts that doesn't
work what we do is we direct your mind
to a different place so we say okay
focus on your breath and take slow
breaths so you can redirect the mind
that you can't stop it can't stop it
okay so then the question becomes like
once you redirect the mind and then your
mind is focused on one thing what
happens when your mind acclimatize this
to that thing well we'll get to step six
and seven powder another step six
ah hold on a second
so moves on does it move on so actually
when you do not enough properly so this
is what we so this is how our mind works
okay object one object to object three
object four
so these are thoughts okay so what we're
gonna do with la donna is whenever we
have a thought we're gonna actually
direct it back so let's say object five
is the breath and then we have another
thought and then what I don't know we're
gonna be like come back to the breath
and then we think about pancakes so
we're gonna come back to the breath and
then we think about handwriting so we're
going to come back to the breath and
then over time all we're gonna have is
thought five and then eventually thought
five gets smaller smaller
and then we're left with this right so
what is this this is this this is the
question mark so all we have is raw
attention without any focus and then
you're left with emptiness and this is
step seven gianna this is really
meditative
State okay
sort of like mindfulness we'll talk
about mindfulness in a second okay so
this is where a lot of confusion around
meditation comes people say I'm not good
at meditating I can't meditate other
people are getting good at meditating
and I can't do it and when I ask them
what do you mean by that and they say
like I can't like people say empty their
thoughts I can't empty my thoughts so
the first thing to understand is that
not or not is a verb admit it sorry and
Beyond is a state so this is so I don't
know is something that you can do and
this is something that happens to you
right so when people say I had a very
productive meditation session what
they're talking about is that they
entered the state of meditation and they
hung out there for a while they spent
time over here okay other times people
say I didn't have a protected productive
meditation session and I tried and tried
and tried and it didn't work for me and
essentially they spent time here you
guys seen the difference and so when
people say like meditate you guys have
to understand that meditation is like
going to bed and falling asleep right
and what do I mean by that like so when
I say I I went to sleep at ten o'clock
last night that is impossible you cannot
go to sleep it is impossible to go to
sleep sleep is not a verb that you do
sleep is a state of mind that if you're
lucky you achieve or happens to you you
can go to bed I can lay down close my
eyes and pull the covers over my head or
under my head but that's not sleep
that's going to bed what is something
you can do one is something that happens
to you and that's what's hotter a nun
Tiana's one of the biggest problems in
English is that like when we teach
meditation we don't draw the distinction
between verb and state like we don't
each that as part of the basics which i
think is criminal because like no wonder
like people just misunderstand
meditation so hard and that's because
what happens is you have people who
really understand meditation who then
trained people who become certified in
meditation and then they go and teach
other people because you're a certified
meditation teacher but a certified
meditation teacher does not make you a
good meditation teacher because in the
West we have like qualifications that
you meet but good teachers are gurus
right and like a good teacher can teach
and then people don't understand the
reason that so many people misunderstand
meditation is because you have a lot of
certified and bad teachers out there
doesn't mean that they they're not like
good people it just means that they're
not qualified to teach but they teach
because they're certified fine so in the
old system there was no certification
for meditation teaching your teacher
basically said okay now you are capable
of teaching like they just assign you
like that certification
whereas now like we essentially have a
protocol for certification if you go
through eight weeks of training your
certified teacher it's not an individual
assessment of like the teachers
capability to teach and that's why I
think we have a lot of misunderstandings
okay so let's kind of go back to this so
pattern of Keanu and Samadhi
okay so beyond is the meditative state
of mind where it's a no mind state and
you're kind of like in this place okay
you're over here actually there's
there's two phases actually so this is
Eon and this is so much okay so that
they're actually like sub levels so even
in Samadhi they're like further two
levels of this so that's kind of beyond
our scope because you really have to
experience some honey they even
understand it's kind of like me saying
you know it's like trying to explain
like color to a blind person let alone
the blind person doesn't even understand
sight but like trying to explain color
to them is even like a completely
different thing
so the first thing is like you know you
have to start by like looking at the
world in black and white and that we can
kind of do like I can I can explain the
idea that like you can visually perceive
objects to a blind person and then once
you're able to visually perceive things
then like you take the next step of
explaining color to a colorblind person
so we're kind of two steps away so we're
not going to go into further states of
Samadhi okay so let's actually stick
here so now so this is meditation okay
this is like understanding meditation so
let's kind of try to recap a little bit
so when we think about meditative
techniques there are a couple of
different techniques that we can use or
actually let's just talk about
mindfulness for a second so what is my
boss so mindfulness is actually in
Sanskrit it's called sakshi Wow or
witnessing attitude and Sakshi Prague is
the first step of not enough so it's
like the first achievement sorry first
step of beyond so there are actually
like a lot of states of mind so Sachi
Bob is kind of like the most basic state
of pion and there are further levels of
John and even further levels of Samadhi
so mindfulness is not even it's not
really even a meditative state it's just
a witnessing attitude it's the capacity
to separate so it's the capacity to
separate self from mind and observe this
difference okay so that like these are
separate things
there's dit actually what I should do is
this so most of the time we don't really
think about ourselves is different from
our mind we don't really think about the
fact that there's like a gap between
self and mind like we think that who we
are is what we think
so mindfulness is like increasing the
gap between self and mine and just
observing this difference this
difference is mindfulness it's not even
really meditation and and so mindfulness
is like a great preparatory exercise but
the goal like you'll cultivate
mindfulness if you do this practice but
it's not the goal it's just it's like
the first realization that self and mind
are different okay and then as you get
deeper you'll do different kinds of
you'll get a bit deeper understanding so
what does this mean practically okay so
now I'm going to run through a couple of
things so if you want to meditate what
kind of meditation should you do so if
couldn't aleni yoga I'm gonna talk about
Kundalini Yoga for a second pause it's
there that there are seven chakras and
each chakra has certain attributes and
that working on these chakras will give
you certain how can I say the certain
achievements or abilities so for example
when I'm teaching meditation personally
one-on-one to someone who wants like
like okay so then what we have to think
about let's just pause reciting so let
me say this so what I want you guys to
understand is that thun throt is about
sort of the outside world and yoga is
really about the self so nothing in yoga
has anything to do with like money or
power or fame or wealth or any any kind
of stuff Yoga is just about the
systematic process of like being able to
do things like this this is what Yoga is
about this is what yoga is about nothing
here has anything to do with like magic
or accumulating wealth or power or
anything like that done through is about
that stuff done throw is about
accumulating a particular kind of Shakti
or energy and then directing that energy
towards a particular goal now directing
that energy you could direct it towards
your personal
spiritual practice so the mantra that I
started using myself that my teacher
gave me so he asked me like are you
interested in being like
materialistically successful or
spiritually successful and I said I want
both and he said okay that's fine so he
gave me a mantra that helped me grow
spiritually it also helped me become
materialistically successful so I really
do I mean it's kind of weird but like
when I think about moving from you know
2.5 GPA to like being a harvard-trained
physician and faculty at Harvard Medical
School I really wonder about
statistically how how often that happens
if the statistical probability is quite
low it makes me wonder if there was
something specific that I did to
increase my odds and I really do I know
this sounds crazy I don't understand it
myself but if you just look at it if
there's a statistical phenomenon that's
quite rare either I am one out of a
million or there is something out there
some other factor at play that is
responsible for my success and I
sometimes wonder if the month are is
responsible for that success because
I've been tainting this month or now for
16 years and like my life seems to be on
a generally upward trajectory so who
knows so Don Thoreau though is about
sort of directing energy towards a
particular outcome yes so survivorship
bias is completely correct right so it's
it's very possible so I'm not saying
that like I don't think that we have
enough evidence that month or is
actually work I don't think so so there
are so Thunder is sort of about
accumulation of energy and directing
that energy Yoga is about purification
of the self and moving towards
enlightenment and Kundalini Yoga is kind
of in the middle so Kundalini Yoga is
about purification of certain chakras
and as you purify those chakras you gain
certain kinds of abilities or intuitions
of house and what I mean by that is like
so I'll ask people when I you know when
I'm teaching them Kundalini Yoga if I
think they're good for Kundalini Yoga
I'll ask them are you interested in
controlling
impulses are you interested in
metabolizing negativity are you
interested in gaining compassion are you
interested in exerting influence on the
outside world or are you interested in
knowledge and basically depending on
what they pick out of these I'll teach
them different kinds of practices so now
we got to just talk about neuroscience
for a second so lately there are all
these different techniques of meditation
so you can do month or you can do
Kundalini Yoga you can do Raja yoga
right and even within Raji o you can do
awesome so you can do physical things
you can do breathing techniques you can
do sensory withdrawal techniques you can
do focusing techniques all of these are
forms of meditation so which one do you
pick and it kind of depends on what
you're looking for so if you want a
particular outcome in the in the in the
material world I would say that like
thunder is better for you if you want to
grow in a very specific way a particular
part of your capability than I think
Kundalini Yoga is good and this is where
I believe that different meditation
techniques map to different parts of the
brain in terms of like what they do and
so doing a particular meditation
technique I think for example you know
on aa hudsucker techniques which are the
heart chakra which are the compassion
techniques so like Metta meditation is a
good example of this I believe that
those kinds of techniques actually work
on a different part of your brain like
they work on your empathic centers of
the brain more so than like let's say
your your knowledge kind of centers so
like your intuition or your brains
ability to calculate is
different from your brain's ability to
calculate or subconsciously process
because that's where intuition comes
from using your brain's capacity to
subconsciously process or calculate is
fundamentally different from your
brain's capacity to be empathic or
compassionate and so I think that like
was you do these different techniques
the best explanation that I can come up
with is that it actually Maps the
different parts of the brain and there's
very preliminary evidence of this
there's actually a study that was done
out of UCLA that actually looked at like
an aha chakra meditation specifically so
compassion oriented meditations and
whether they're different from a
neuroscience perspective than other
forms of meditation likes traditional
mindfulness and there are studies on
things like TM and other forms of
meditation which show that there are
actually different EEG patterns
depending on what kind of meditation you
do so there's some basic evidence that
meditation of there is actually evidence
we can we can conclude that meditation
affects the brain in different ways so
different meditation techniques affect
the brain in different ways that is
actually a scientific statement of fact
but how each meditation affects the
brain and in what ways certain
meditation techniques affect the brain
we actually have no idea we have very
little scientific data for that so I am
sort of extrapolating or using reasoning
to connect dots that may be
scientifically invalid that each of
these meditation techniques work
somewhat differently on the brain last
thing that I'll share with you guys is
that impulse control is what I do for
addiction so what I can say
scientifically here is that when I teach
people these impulse control techniques
they're their addiction their ability to
control their addiction in their
sobriety improves and furthermore
improves over groups of people who do
like plain mindfulness so does that mean
that I'm a better clinician that could
be a confounding variable I just need
maybe a better teacher it may not be the
kind of technique that I teach it may be
like my personal clinical impact but I
really do believe that these type
kind of do work so like impose control
of meditation techniques are better at
controlling addictions then let's say
like intuition or knowledge techniques
these are the techniques that I use for
trauma these are the techniques that I
use for wealth for lack of a better term
so when I have a client that comes to me
that says that I want to be like more
materialistically successful I teach
them these techniques and then for
people who just want to understand like
who they are and how they work in the
nature of the universe I teach them
these techniques but people just want to
know like some people come to me and
they're like I want to understand how
this stuff works
but all I just want to understand all of
it so this actually is my personal path
so I do these kinds of techniques and so
that's meditation so let's see if we've
got what we're going to take a couple of
questions so let's go ahead and start so
I'm gonna start with near critique and
Kevin and Kabir Tech teller okay so
let's see if we can get you guys in
which meditations for gamers great
question so I think it depends on on
where you are but I think that you
should start with actually pranayama or
should the techniques okay people are
joining great
hey dr. Kate hey yeah so hi the question
is so Abby's breath primary pronoun yeah
is that a bra Nia Donna no technique or
but the heretic because it was you
buzzing ow
it sort of inhibits your uh no sound I
guess like it you focuses on within the
song dies down so I was wondering was
technique tennis yes so Brahma refrn I
surprised I am is the pranayama so the
be the actual humming is upon I am but
the Shan Mookie mudra which is this this
thing that we do mm-hmm the that's a
pratyahara right just like so the Shan
Wilke mudras or pratyahara mudra and you
can combine them so there are some
things like you know you'll have
different teachers will have different
kinds of like Korea's so take like two
or three different meditation techniques
and they'll make their own meditation
brand TM and they'll say like this is
mine and this is my special technique I
think it's better than all the others I
mean since my second question is what
about the potentially psychosis that you
talked about that can occur from
Kundalini Yoga and is there a way you
can predict the risk of that in a person
yeah so that's a great question so
fantastic question so one thing that
I'll tell you guys is that meditation is
not without risks so there are case
reports of meditation induced psychosis
which is quite rare of a phenomenon but
I think that like you know a lot of the
techniques that I mean some thankfully
most meditation like the world does not
really understand like more than than
two percent of meditation techniques all
of the meditation that's being taught by
headspace and mindfulness and things
like that that's finally primarily
because mindfulness is what spread
mindfulness is a tiny tiny part of real
meditative tradition and so generally
speaking mindfulness and the mindfulness
based techniques are very very safe and
have a low likelihood don't lead to
psychosis
if you go and actually learn Kundalini
Yoga and things like that from a real
teacher I'm not talking about going to a
yoga studio down the street
doing awesome that's not real I mean
it's the first step of Kundalini Yoga
it's that it's kind of like a Kundalini
Yoga is like stretching before a
marathon
like what you learn at the yoga studio
is is like stretching before a marathon
it's not actually the practice it's the
preparation for true Kundalini Yoga but
so what's the so the first thing is that
psychosis is possible and so you
shouldn't do like hardcore meditation
without the guidance of a Buddha okay so
you should have a teacher who really
understands this stuff and then they can
teach you but anything you do at a yoga
studio is fine anything you do with a
nap is fine anything I teach you is
probably fine um I tend to teach more
advanced techniques than most people
like I do teach like so this this
technique for example is actually a
Kundalini Yoga technique but it's very
mild basically and so how can you
predict the risk I'd say it so your
overall stability so remember that like
yoga is intended to be practiced by
people who are purified right so these
are people who are truthful they don't
lie they're not necessarily celibate but
they're not lustful they're a lot of the
most of the time they're vegetarian
right so you're like a very like pure
person so like if you're having trouble
with like addictions or anger or
depression or anxiety like you're not
really ready for deep yoga practice or
meditation techniques so I'd say that
like the way that you predict risk is
based on the stability of a person so I
had a patient once who was very very
depressed and they wanted to go on a
10-day silent meditation retreat because
they thought that like through this
intensive meditation they would get like
a high dose of meditation and their
depression will be cured there's a
chance that that can happen but there's
also like that's the recipe for
psychosis because when you get someone
who is ill or unwell or not at peace
with themselves and then you give them a
very very high dose of meditation and
they're gonna run into problems it's
kind of like taking someone who is
untrained and swimming and dumping them
in the ocean like they're just not ready
for it they might learn to swim but then
my drone as well so absolutely right so
they it's absolutely sink or swim so I
I'd say you know start with this start
with the small stuff and then get to the
more extreme or esoteric stuff when
you're ready in health
and then a teacher supposedly will
present themselves when you're ready
okay great question thanks backs out
great day oh this is my son yeah okay
this was my first webinar and really
thoroughly enjoyed what you forgive me
for my naive language but so I invested
my focus in the lecture that you just
gave now and my question is sort of
branching out of that so I believe that
meditation is something as a state of
mind or whatsoever where you can
understand and also salt right and to
understand is to recognize problems I
saw a question in chat which branched
this question out of me which is like
okay do you have a mantra for decision
decision-making so what I was what I'm
trying to say is I believe that
meditation is the kind of state where
you can question your own
decision-making and question the source
of your own insecurities and is it how
do you derive it down to a mantra or
practice to solve that what you're
recognizing is that yes all right let me
ask you something you said that you
believe meditation is what so I think
meditation as a box with a question mark
on it is something that allows you to
understand and also something that
allows you to solve now what your
understanding is probably your own
insecurities or something about your
impulses for decision making so let's
let's start with this critique have you
been in the box state Oh
possibly it's hard to say okay so the
first thing is that is that so your your
question comes from a foundation that
that box state is a particular thing so
until you know what the Box state is the
rest of your questions are logical kind
of like you're building this on a
foundation of what you believe a
meditative state is
right right so unless that assumption is
correct or incorrect the rest of your
what you're saying becomes relevant or
irrelevant
yeah does that make sense yeah yeah so I
think the first step is to get to the
box state and figure out whether your
fundamental assumption is correct or
incorrect like I agree with how you
described the Box state as you drew it
right now I could fully correlate and
understand how cutting out attention in
certain aspects increases is another way
and then you reach this meditative state
of mind which allows you to sit down and
focus on one thing and sort of like you
know the way I narrow it down to myself
is I always think of it as a it's like
you're running towards a balance of what
to internalize and externalize that's if
I just say it in one line that's how I
say to myself okay so what's your
question right so my thing is how do you
derive of what is a suit suitable mantra
or a practice based on what you can
figure out is a possible insecurity yeah
so I think that there - - a couple of
things so the first thing is that I
think something about your conception I
kind of disagree with which is why I'm
saying you have to start by actually
getting to the statement and the reason
I say that is because actually like in
my experience you don't need a mantra if
you can get to the state so if you can
get to the state then the insecurity
starts to dissolve on its own more in
the state a month or will be revealed to
you that you can use to kind of
consciously dissolve it the purpose of a
mantra is this because it's given by
someone who has been to the state to
someone who has not been to the state
and it helps that person because it's
kind of like formulaic and a protocol to
in a month absolutely yeah all right so
that's why mantra is given by like a
teacher to a disciple because the
disciple hasn't been to where the
teacher has been because
once you get to the where the teachers
you don't need the month or anymore so
if you're talking about following the
discipline of to recognize it for
yourself sort of like a well it's it's
either over right so one thing is if you
have a particular in secular two paths
one is that if you have an insecurity
you do like yoga and meditation and if
you meditate long enough you're gonna
get to the state and the problem is
gonna be fixed on itself just getting to
that state will free you from the
problem and that's what we see right
like what like so I know that sounds
absolutely bizarre but like we have
clinical evidence of this so you take a
hundred people with anxiety all of their
anxieties are different you teach them
up meditation protocol and eight weeks
later their anxiety is clinically
significant there's a statistically
significant clinical improvement so how
does that work it's not a specific month
or for each of their anxieties or
insecurities by getting closer and
closer to the Box state it dissolves the
root of anxiety so that the particular
insecurities actually becomes completely
irrelevant
mm-hmm right but that's that's my point
and we were if you go back and you watch
the anxiety lecture you'll see that that
anxiety has a root so if you get into
the box say you don't need a mantra
because you're dealing with it on its
own the purpose of a mantra is if you're
unable to get to a box state or you want
to an acceleration towards a particular
box state no no that's a little bit of
an oxymoron but then you're you're given
a month or up by someone who's more
spiritually knowledgeable than you and
then it kind of accelerates you in that
way hmm does that answer your question
so you're gonna go either way it's just
them you know you can target a security
as in security specifically and if you
want to target it specifically you
basically need a teacher who will tell
you how to dissolve that right so that
teacher doesn't have to be a spiritual
teacher that's what psychologists do -
is it knowledge yourself - yeah
absolutely
but if you want to teach yourself then
you don't use a month or how you use the
yoga path and then you'll teach yourself
hmm
okay yes thanks very much much respect
take care thank you all right we're
gonna get a couple other we'll do one
more question so first person I'm
inviting Ryan Lucca and Tristan and Lisi
so let's see if we can get someone else
will do like one or two more questions
okay Simon with us
okay so we're inviting more people great
Lisi has joined the room fantastic
so it'll probably take him a second -
hey can you hear me
you're not gonna you yeah let's see go
for it okay so little problems with
meditation as a whole
okay about five about I would say like I
guess like I try to do it like in the
middle of the day because I'm not very
good in the mornings my body's a very
unstable so I do roundabouts noonish
maybe one o'clock here should maybe
after lunch and I know we get like three
minutes into it and then for some reason
my chest like feels a lot stress and
it's my body forcibly tries to pull me
out of it sure and I and that is and
maybe a weights like like way like like
I deal with that all snoring any history
of trauma um my bra
they trauma say history prom oh yeah
just like a yeah yeah oh I've tons yeah
so that's a very common experience for
people who have a history of trauma yeah
so let me explain to you so I think
listen your solution is gonna be in the
kind of meditation technique that you do
okay so let's understand what happens in
the mind with trauma yes so when you
have a traumatic event your mind tries
to protect you from it yes and the way
it protects you from it is by putting
like you know like pressure plates like
or like putting a bunch of weight on top
of the trauma to push it down oh okay
okay so when you do meditation yeah as
you open your mind and you relax you
know all of that pressure that's keeping
your trauma at bay relaxes and then the
Trop astronomers leaking out yes and
then so like as you do like mindfulness
like what kind of matter you do like
mindfulness meditation I've been
mindfulness have been third i I've done
chakrams I've done sound I've done I've
done one we once we have to use certain
like I've done body scans I've done
visualization so done
those are you have a different like
three meditations that seem to work the
best almost like the body scanner I got
inside like but like at least five
minutes I didn't the other pull down
with go usually you're gonna talk
there's actually so this is something
where what I'm about to say actually has
good scientific evidence to support okay
so the first thing to understand is that
your mind is trying to keep the trauma
at bay and gel so you do something like
an open awareness meditation like
mindfulness where you just let whatever
is in your mind like flood about right
so trauma people who have trauma I do
not teach the mindfulness because I
think mindfulness is a bad thing to
teach I dried it once and let see my my
head is lateesha shaking look at it
again if you look at the meditation
techniques so there's something called
dialectical behavioral therapy don't I
have to go the dialect of dialectical
behavioral therapy is a modification of
cognitive behavioral therapy that
includes quarter quote mindfulness so
this is an avid the best evidence-based
treatment for something called
borderline personality disorder and most
people who have borderline personality
disorder have trauma early in their life
yes this is the best scientific
treatment for people as so you can sort
of do a little bit of a hop skip and a
jump to say this is the best scientific
this is a scientifically validated
meditation regimen for people who have a
history of trauma and if you look at
their corner quote mindfulness
techniques they're actually not open
awareness Zen techniques they're very
sensory grounding techniques so what
they actually do is it's not open
awareness where you're watching your
mind and you're emptying your mind their
mind is actually very focused on a
particular sensation or bodily
experience yeah I found I found one of
focusing on like this I've been doing
sound meditation like yeah three times
this week and it's been doing better
than any other mentation have done what
you need to do Lisi is not empty your
mind no indoor meditation techniques
should not empty your mind at all they
should be dominated by one thing and on
how as they get dominated by that one
thing because you know if you dominate
your mind with one thing the trauma
is gonna stay at bay okay $0.10 resumix
empty your mind your mind is gonna be a
vacuum and the trauma is gonna come
rushing in because of the negative
pressure in your mind is this gonna fill
the void absolutely so mindful
techniques are not good for you so buy
skins so physical techniques are gonna
be the absolute best okay so like body
scanning is good Yoga is gonna be
excellent for you your imagination
the Yungas moon brilliance absolutely
right so your meditation should be yoga
so when we do yoga together and I tell
you to like focus on the present like
that's where your that foundation of
your meditation and then as you get more
comfortable with that then you can start
rolling in breath techniques but also
breath techniques that are very rigorous
so your brother so much here like the
trunk monk to try one we like triphasic
breathing yes so that so all of your
meditation should demand mental
concentration because if you let your
mind relax trauma is gonna come rushing
out got it yep really can you hear me no
yeah listen you does that answer your
question
that's absolute perfect okay awesome a
been pulled out of my meditation like
every often you watching you don't want
to keep the trauma at bay and then over
time you learn how to let a little bit
of it leak out in doses they can handle
but your mind will handle that for you
okay you don't have to worry about it
okay that's perfect my mom take care man
good luck yeah okay Simon okay okay yeah
so my question is actually also related
to trauma I'm like I think the main
point of my question is how like like
complying this Eastern stuff that you're
teaching us with the traditional Western
therapy that takes place because I also
I have like si PTSD and so basically my
like I'm because I'm like still waiting
in queue to get into therapy I don't
know like it will be several months I'm
actually doing a sort of like self
exposure at home so I'll be like writing
about the traumatic event or I'll be
like speaking it out loud in a recorder
so
like trying to do within like small
doses so my question is like how do I
combine like this self exposure stuff
that I'm doing with you know maybe like
sometimes some type of meditation or
some type of yoga to like just heal the
traumas faster or more rapidly or
whatever yeah so I think that question
you know I mean I can I'm gonna sort of
partially answer it so the short answer
is that like if you want to combine in a
clinical way meditation or yoga practice
with Western therapy which is like
literally what I do in my day job it
needs to be with like an actual mental
health clinician right so like a mental
health clinician has to evaluate you and
then sort of tell you what they think is
going to be good or not good chances are
that the clinician that you meet is not
going to be very knowledgeable about
this Eastern stuff because those people
are few and far between yeah um and so
the core your question about how to
combine things so remember that
combining things involves Western stuff
with Eastern stuff and the Western stuff
actually has to be performed by a
clinician you got that yeah any
discussion of combining these two is is
like it's gonna be incomplete until you
see a mental health professional okay so
yeah so you're basically saying that I
like like there is no combination where
they meet in the middle it's basically
like two wholes meeting well no I'm
saying that you can't know where that
combination is because you haven't done
the Western piece yet okay okay right so
you're waiting to see the therapist so
how can I tell you how they're gonna
combine if you have if you don't know
what the Western piece looks like okay
yeah well I like I dunno some like you
you are correct that it's like better to
do is supervised because you don't know
what else might happen to you like
breakdowns or whatever mental breakdowns
but like I've sort of like yeah just I
just got like a quick review of what
we're supposed to do and it's like
basically meet speaking aloud about the
trauma and then recording myself and
then listening to my own recording and
like doing that and basically just
repeating the story until like I can get
like from 0 to 100 I'm like at a level
of like 30 in terms of discomfort where
I'm not comfortable Simon okay so I'm
gonna answer more of your question but
let's just start by saying so I
understand that you read about what the
therapy looks like and you started the
process of doing it on your own I don't
know if that's a good idea or a bad idea
because generally speaking in my
experience therapists add something to
the equation right like I don't know how
else to put that but like I mean people
can grow it like so the majority of
people deal with the majority of their
problems without a therapist people deal
with anxiety and insecurities and low
self confidence and depression like the
average human being deals with all kinds
of stuff all the time
therapists add something to that
equation so I don't know if it is a good
idea or a bad idea or I can't gauge the
efficacy of you doing this stuff on your
own generally speaking I'm a big fan of
you being reflective and trying to grow
as a human being but like what I'm
saying is that you're asking how do I
combine eastern and western stuff and
what I'm saying is that you don't really
know what the Western piece is yet right
you can lead about it you can read about
it but like reading a book on therapy
techniques is very different from
actually being a subject in therapy does
that make sense yeah I mean there is
there is still a difference I I didn't
actually read about it but the
difference you're talking about remains
because I haven't been a patient but
like the the knowledge that I'm applying
myself at home is actually just a quick
review I they received from the
therapists like I gotta read it online
like EJ just told me you're gonna wait
in a queue and when you arrive this is
that stuff we're going on doing so I'm
not I'm not saying that what you're
doing is bad like I can you know let
your your therapist that you're gonna
see eventually know that you're doing
this but my point is your question was
how do I combine Western and Eastern and
my first point that I'm making to you is
that you don't actually have the Eastern
peace filled in yet okay it's okay so
can we just the like it can I make a
concrete example so let's say I'm like
yes
no no so dude yeah I don't I just I just
want you to understand that
if you want a comprehensive Western
Eastern treatment plan for your trauma I
want you to acknowledge because I don't
think we're on seeing eye to eye here
that you have not started Western
therapy yet okay so you're basically
like I think like if I'm reading your
mind correctly like you're viewing me a
bit too reckless you want me to slow
down a bit no no I'm not viewing you as
reckless I have a second part to my
answer I'm just trying to get like I'm
trying to get on the same page about
where you are right okay yes I wasn't
you want me to acknowledge that I know
that's what I'm doing is more of an
experimentation and that I should be
more patient and received the whole
story from my therapist not that you
should do anything I agree with you that
it's experimental okay what I'm saying
is that when you so you're asking me how
do I compile and combine Western and
Eastern treatment right that's your
question
can you yeah yeah right so what I'm
saying is that like the western part of
your treatment has not really begun or
is not completely begun yet hmm you see
what I'm saying so if in my answer to
you we have to acknowledge that the
Western treatment hasn't fully started
yet yeah right so now I'm going to give
you the Eastern proper what I'm saying
is that you can't like if if I let's say
that I say like how do I combine like a
pizza party with a barbecue and then you
can say like okay I've like I have
breadsticks from the pizza party but I
don't have the pizza and we're gonna
we're about to talk to the barbecue but
like you haven't actually started
treatment with a therapist yeah hmm so
combining these two is going to evolve
once you actually start treatment with a
therapist that's all I'm trying to say
okay okay yeah right so I'm not saying
you're doing something bad like that's
between you and your therapist like if
he gave you stuff to review and you're
reviewing it and you're finding it
helpful by all means go for it it's not
my place to say what you should or
shouldn't do it's not my place to
comment about whether this is a good
idea or a bad idea
you're asking me question about how to
combine Western treatment and Eastern
treatment and I just want you to
understand that you can't combine those
two until you start Western treatment
okay okay so yeah yeah yeah I understand
but like but
you can't combine something that you you
can't combine until you have two things
and you actually have the western piece
yes okay so let's say let's say it's not
okay so can I like just reformulate my
question quickly so let's just say
because I journal like a lot like I
write about uncomfortable memories or
like and this is not like part of my
therapy necessarily it's just like a
habit of act up which will help me so
let's say I like journal about a bad
memory like or just journal like about
something that makes me uncomfortable in
the moment like how do I like okay
assuming that this is not the whole
western part of it but just like a small
part so how do I like after journaling
something like should ie like do
meditation just so I remain with those
uncomfortable memories like you know
what I mean like yes so that that was
the answer that I've been trying to get
to okay so my short answer for you Simon
is that much like the last guy you
should do primarily physical techniques
and I don't know so when I work with
people like I actually combine the
Western and Eastern so based on the
content of your journal or how often you
feel physical sensations or what kind of
physical sensations you feel I will give
people specific meditation regimens or
yoga regimens so whether it's a
tightness in the throat having this in
the chest or a pit in your stomach or
constriction in your stomach tension in
your shoulders all of those things in my
experience as a therapist I will use
different techniques for so the nature
of their trauma and what we uncovered in
therapy leads to a different kind of
specificity of meditation technique and
that's why I was trying to emphasize
Yorkshire I haven't started therapy yet
so that's fine not saying what you're
doing is good or bad now your question
is how do I use Eastern stuff to
accelerate the process or supplement my
progress and my growth and my healing
which i think is a great question
I mean the short answer is since you
have a history of trauma I'd say that
you should do things that are heavily
like Earth start with things that are
physically oriented just like the last
guy because we can we know from studies
on PTSD or not so they're also like
things like EMDR for example which are
very intensive donnas and evidence-based
treatments for PTSD so it's sort of eye
movement desensitization
which is kinda sad it's essentially
adharma but like essentially you want to
focus on one sense or your body and you
want to use that to fill your mind
because if your mind is completely empty
then their trauma is going to come
rushing back now in your case it sounds
like you're doing a lot of reflection on
your trauma so I would say there are
other kinds of techniques that may
benefit you more but I still think I'm
not recommending these but I think like
bass I think if we had four hours to
work together I'm pretty sure or not I'm
not pretty sure I would imagine based on
what you're telling me right now that I
would probably give you some kind of
like intuition or knowledge techniques
because it sounds like you're actually
able to sit with your trauma so I'm
already which is different from listen
and if you're able to sit with it
getting some perspective through like
more knowledge oriented techniques like
third eye techniques and charging the
laser beam and stuff like that I think
could help you but I think the safest
answer and the most evidence-based
answer is to do essentially bodily
techniques or techniques that are
focused very grounding on a particular
sense or in your body okay so just to
like summarize what you've said like
physical techniques so I keep the trauma
at bay so it doesn't like overwhelm me
well if I'm more comfortable to sit with
the trauma I will do intuition or
knowledge techniques yeah but okay so
that aren't I definitely do not think
you should explore on your own okay so
either it's a meditation teacher or a
competent therapist or ideally both
okay got it yeah so I saw and then
you're not gonna answer so then you're
not gonna answer my next question of
where I can find intuition and knowledge
techniques no I mean I'm happy to answer
it the short answer is when when when
you're ready for them someone will
present themselves to teach it to you
right so I got a bigger an awesome here
assignment is that you're impatient yeah
I think so that's the biggest problem
and so we can talk about well I can
answer as many questions as you want to
but you need to learn how to take this
slow that's the most important thing to
deal with trauma you got to take it so
you can't fix it overnight so strong by
doing yoga and it's very unsatisfying
because so this is I see
a lot where people who have liked have
histories of trauma or bad depression
they want something very intensive
because they want to get better way
faster which is completely reasonable
because you've been suffering for a long
time unfortunately how much you want to
get better and how quickly you want to
get better doesn't change the healing
process if I break a leg and I want to
get back to playing soccer what is like
just because I want to get back to
playing soccer super super bad what does
that mean about my leg healing process
my brother will heal in his stone time
exactly and the mind is no different so
just because you want to try Slyke you
can't accelerate the healing process of
your leg you can definitely do something
to support it you can do some things to
accelerate it but most of it has to
happen kind of on its own and so the
biggest thing that you need is patience
go ahead and start doing yoga do yoga
every day for half an hour it's gonna be
good for you okay and then you'll be
prepared for therapy if you do if you
start doing yoga today three months from
now or six months from now when you see
your therapist your body in your mind
will be in a different state and you'll
be able to actually like do therapy in a
much more powerful way okay okay yeah
okay good luck man bye
take care all right okay guys so um
we're gonna wrap up for today
so thank you guys very much for coming
this is day 4 right of our webinar we're
gonna continue tomorrow and we're gonna
move back to our other location which
hopefully should have better bandwidth
so tomorrow I guess we'll do Dharma and
and then we'll also stream tomorrow
afternoon so thank you guys very much so
we're at stuffing donations through
coffee if this is helpful to you then
please donate and then you know but it's
we're gonna try to keep things free and
all that good stuff so thank you guys
very much and good luck stay safe and
I'll see you guys tomorrow
you